Government has scheduled the following briefings/activities for the week of 19 - 25 March 2018. The activities, which are aligned to the National Development Plan and outlined in the Medium Term Strategic Framework 2014-2019, are undertaken to build a better South Africa. The National Water Week 2018 will be held from 19 to 25 March. The campaign seeks to continue building on the ongoing awareness to ensure the integrity of our water resources and its efficient use within the broader South African community. On 19 and 20 March, the Department of Higher Education and Training will hold a College Lectures Development Conference which aims to further expand and strengthen colleges into attractive institutions of choice for students seeking Post-School Education and Training. This will be at the Birchwood Conference Centre, Benoni. The two-day Consultative Conference aims to capacitate the TVET colleges and equip lecturers with the needed skills and qualifications. On Monday, 19 March, the Minister of Police, Mr Bheki Cele together with the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Malusi Gigaba and Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Adv Michael Masutha, as well as the National Commissioner of Police, Lieutenant-General Khehla Sithole, will hold a press briefing on a significant breakthrough on corruption within the Prison and Home Affairs environment at GCIS Head Office, Tshedimosetso House, Hatfield, Pretoria at 09:30 am. NB: There will be a video link to the Imbizo Media Centre, Parliament, Cape Town The Department of Labour will be embarking on another national series of roadshows on the National Minimum Wage (NMW), this time focusing on the Bill Exemption process with employers across the country. The Bill, which is set to pave the way for the NMW in South Africa, is currently before Parliament and has been published for the public to make representation by 16 March. The briefing sessions will commence in Johannesburg on Monday, 19 March at Orion Hotel, Orion Building, Braamfontein, and then proceed to Pretoria on Tuesday, 20 March. On Tuesday 20 March 2018, Deputy President David Mabuza is scheduled to appear before the National Assembly for his first oral question and answer session. Regular question and answer sessions are one of the ways in which Parliament holds the Executive to account. The Transport Minister, Dr Bonginkosi Blade Nzimande, will officially launch the 2018 Easter Long Weekend Road Safety Campaign aimed at reducing road traffic accidents. The launch will take the form of an integrated law enforcement operation targeting long distance drivers on Tuesday, 20 March at Heidelberg Weighbridge. The Easter road safety campaign launch will be in partnership with the Department of Health, Municipalities and Taxi Associations amongst others. Government calls on all motorists to exercise and abide by the laws of the road in order to avoid the loss of life, injury, loss of income and loss of assets that result from incidents on our roads. Mineral Resources Minister Mr Gwede Mantashe will on Tuesday, 20 March, brief media on the Mining Charter engagement session with social partners held over the weekend at GCIS Head Office, Tshedimosetso House, Hatfield, Pretoria at 10:00 am. The Minister will further brief media about his immediate plans and priorities concerning the Department and the mining industry. NB: There will be a video link to the Imbizo Media Centre, Parliament, Cape Town The South African Reserve Bank will on Tuesday, 20 March, release the 2018 March Quarterly Bulletin. Members of the media who would like to have access to the bulletin ahead of publication can attend a lock-up which will run from 07h00 to 09h00. The lock up will be followed by a media briefing. Both the lock-up and the media briefing are covered by the embargo. The Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ms Elizabeth Thabethe, will launch a tourism incubator in Upington, Northern Cape followed by the hosting of an Enterprise Development Awareness workshop on Tuesday, 20 March. The Deputy Minister, will on Thursday, 22 March, again host an Enterprise Development Awareness workshop for tourism SMMEs in Cape Town. On Friday, 23 March, the Deputy Minister will also host a Hospitality Youth Graduation with a tourism Imbizo in Port Elizabeth. President Cyril Ramaphosa will lead a South African delegation to the 10th Extraordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU) in Kigali, Rwanda scheduled to take place on 21 March. President Ramaphosa will be accompanied by the Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Ms Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies and Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr Gratitude Magwanishe. The 2018 National Human Rights Day commemorations will be held under the theme: “The year of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela: promoting and deepening a human rights culture across society”. The national event will take place on Wednesday, 21 March at George Thabe Cricket Pitch, Sharpeville in Vereeniging. The day is the central activity of a month long campaign which seeks to provide the country with an opportunity to reflect on progress made in the promotion and protection of human rights. On Thursday, 22 March, Deputy President, David Mabuza and the Minister of Health Dr Aaron Motsoaledi will officiate the World TB Day at Cator Manor Sports Field, Mayville, KwaZulu-Natal Province. It is a day which provides the opportunity for affected persons and communities, government, civil society organisations, healthcare providers, and international partners, to call for further action to reach people who have been infected with TB. The Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Dr Zweli Mkhize, will open the Local Government Asset Management Indaba. The Indaba will be held from 22 to 23 March at Southern Sun Elangeni, Durban in KwaZulu-Natal Province. The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) in collaboration with Operation SA and Miss Earth ahead of World Water Day, will be hosting a round table discussion on the role of “Business in Active Citizenry” on Tuesday, 20 March at Cullinan Hotel, Cape Town. The dialogue aims to solicit inputs from various stakeholders and particularly business on its active participation in conserving water. On Thursday, 22 March, the DWS in partnership with the Waterberg District Municipality will engage in a series of water saving activations to celebrate World Water Day. The district municipality has been affected by the drought. DWS in partnership with Unilever will also embark on a road show to create awareness and educate communities on drought and using water sparingly. DWS will further hold media tours at Roodeplaat Dam in Pretoria and Kouga Dam outside Port Elizabeth. On Thursday, 22 March, the Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training Mr Buti Manamela, will participate in a Breakfast Dialogue on providing access to quality education in an equal society at Capital Moloko, 160 Helen Road, Sandton at 08:00 am. On the same day at 17:00 pm, the Deputy Minister will deliver a Public Lecture on Fee Free Education for the poor and working class at Tshwane University of Technology, Prestige Auditorium, and Pretoria. On Thursday, 22 March, at 11:00 am, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Mr Senzeni Zokwana, will deliver a keynote address at the commemoration of the International Day of Forests at the Pretoria National Botanical Gardens Milk Plum Café. The International Day of Forests was established on 28 November 2012 by the United Nations Forum of Forests. On Friday, 23 March, the Minister will also convene the inaugural National Food Security Roundtable at the Pan African Parliament, taking place at Gallagher Convention Centre, Midrand at 13:00 pm. The main objective of this initiative is to provide a platform where industry, labour and civil society work collectively to have a united and transformed agriculture, forestry and fisheries sector that ensures food security and economic prosperity for all. All members of the media are advised that the media briefings/activities are subject to change. However, the GCIS will update the media through advisories.