13 April 2018 Ladies and gentlemen of the media Welcome to the technical briefing to prepare for the funeral ceremony of Mama Winnie Mandela who passed away, on the 2nd April 2018. President Ramaphosa has accorded Mama Winnie a Special Official Funeral Category 1 status which includes elements of military honors. The funeral will take place tomorrow, Saturday, 14th April 2018.  The programme is scheduled to commence at 09h00. Today’s technical briefing is to provide members of the media with information pertaining to the logistical arrangements for the funeral proceedings. The application process closed on 12 April 2018 (yesterday). This is to ensure the vetting process is concluded and the issuing of the Accreditation Cards on time. Accreditation cards can be collected at Nasrec Train Station. Today is the last day and the accreditation centre is open until 20h00 tonight.  On Saturday Accreditation Centre will not process any new applicants.  Collection of the cards will only be entertained up until 7:30am. Only accredited media will be allowed access to the stadium. Those who covered the memorial can still use the same accreditation card for the funeral. GCIS has organized three shuttles Combis to transport media to the stadium.  The rest of the mourners will make use of the park and ride system provided. The media shuttle will leave from Nasrec Train Station, starting from 04h00.  It will run in intervals of 30 minutes until 10h30.    For ease of identification, the shuttles will be marked “Media”. The Media Shuttle will drop off at Mofokeng street gate entrance.   The three shuttles will collect all those requiring to be dropped off at the Nasrec Train Station after the completion of the funeral service programme. If a journalist needs to go back to Nasrec Train Station in-between the programme, arrangments will be made. The last collection will be when the burial service has been completed at Fourways Cemetery. The contact person for the media combi: Mr Willy Baloyi  083 390 7147 Mr Ayanda Hallow061 488 0634 Mr Wayne Minaar, the JMPD Spokesperson will share details of the Park and Ride and Road Closures. Media may ONLY enter the stadium through the gate on Mofokeng Street near the parking for OB Vans. Parking for OB Vans is available on the North East side of the stadium. Cars that need to deliver items such as catering need to be accredited and receive decals to be able to enter the stadium. The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) is the host broadcaster for the funeral. Proceedings for the host feed will be covered in HD (1080i50) by the SABC’s large fleet of Outside Broadcast vehicles and an international signal will be available on various satellites, at distribution hubs. The SABC will be providing clean audio and visual feed to other broadcasters. SABC will continue to cover the cemetery leg of the ceremony.  The video footage of the procession from the stadium to the cemetery will be screened via a video link to the stadium. Mourners will remain seated and follow the service on the screen. Mr Setlogola Thoke (Snakes) will expand on the arrangements. Still photographers and multi-media journalists have been allocated space on the pitch.   in-front of the stage..  The positions are available on a first-come first-serve basis. More space for cameras is available on the 4th floor (Press Seating) A media centre is located on the 3rd floor north side of the stadium for your use.  Refreshments and water will be provided. Radio booths are located on the 5th floor. We still have a few booths available.  Radio stations who need to be allocated booths may indicate so. Once it is finalized, it will be available online.  Visit www.winniemandela.co.za to access it and more information on the funeral.  Hard copies will also be available through government officials stationed at each media position. Issued by Government Communications