 Government has scheduled the following media briefings/activities for the week of the 19th - 25th February 2018. The activities, aligned to the National Development Plan and detailed in the Medium Term Strategic Framework are undertaken to build a better South Africa. This week from Monday, 19 -23 February, the Department of Tourism will host the Best Practices Workshop under the theme: 2018 to build capacity among African countries through sharing of tourism best practices in Mpumalanga Province. On Tuesday, 20 February, the President of the Republic of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa will appear before the National Assembly in Cape Town to provide a reply to the debate on the State of the Nation Address. His reply will take place at 14:00pm. On Wednesday, 21 February, the President and Commander-in-Chief of the SANDF Cyril Ramaphosa will host the Armed Forces Day, in celebration and the commemoration of the sinking of the SS Mendi in Kimberley, Northern Cape.The Department of Defence and Military Veterans said the celebrations are to honour the men and women who served in the SANDF and to affirm the country’s support and gratitude to them for upholding the Constitution. The Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba will on Wednesday, 21 February, deliver his maiden Budget Speech amid subdued economic growth and a challenging fiscal situation in the National Assembly, Cape Town.It is in this context that South Africans are encouraged to share their views about issues they would like the government to highlight in the Budget. Contributions can be sent via Twitter with the hashtag #BudgetTips2018. Also on Wednesday, 21 February, at 10:30 am, the Department of Science and Technology will launch the second edition of the South African Risk and Vulnerability Atlas with critical information on the impact of climate change in South Africa in Dalasi, the Crowne Plaza, Rosebank Hotel, Johannesburg. The Minister of Communications, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane will host a Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) Imbizo on Friday, 23 February at George Thabe Stadium, in Emfuleni Local Municipality.  The aim is to educate and inform South Africans about the government’s Broadcasting Digital Migration Programme, including its benefits and significance for the country. All members of the media are advised that the media briefings or activities are subject to change. However, Government Communication and Information System will continue to update the media through its advisories. Enquiries:Phumla WilliamsActing GCIS Director-General Cell: 083 501 0139