Government has scheduled the following media briefings / activities for the week of the 12th to 18th February 2018. The activities, aligned to the National Development Plan and detailed in the Medium Term Strategic Framework are undertaken to build a better South Africa. The Department of Military Veterans and the Office of the Premier Eastern Cape, will as part of the government programme of action, take services closer to military veterans. The roadshows are part of the ongoing programme of interaction with Military Veterans from statutory and non-statutory forces on matters pertaining to the delivery of services and in the Eastern Cape Province. This will take place from the 12th to 23rd February.  For a more detailed itinerary – click on the URL: https://www.gov.za/speeches/military-veterans-sevice-delivery-eastern-cape-12-23-feb-7-feb-2018-0000 The Statistician-General of South Africa, Risenga Maluleke, will brief the media on the results of the Quarterly Labour Force Survey for the fourth quarter of 2017 on Tuesday, 13 February 2018 at GCIS Tshedimosetso House, Pretoria. There will be a video link to Imbizo Media Centre, Parliament, Cape Town. The South African Revenue Service (SARS) will also on Tuesday, 13 February, at 09:00, host a pre-budget workshop at Linton House, Brooklyn Bridge, Pretoria. The session is scheduled in preparation for the Minister of Finance’s national Budget Speech. On Wednesday, 14 February, the Department of Water and Sanitation will visit Mpumalanga Province to engage in a series of educational programmes to inform communities about water conservation and water demand management as well as sanitation issues. The department will also rollout the drought awareness campaign in different areas of Western Cape, including schools with special focus on City of Cape Town. Government again takes this opportunity to request members of the media to partner with us in ensuring that we save water. For water saving tips – please click on the URL: http://www.dwa.gov.za/events/waterweek/2012/Tips.aspx The Department of Labour will this week host two worker engagements / briefing sessions on the implementation of the national minimum wage (NMW) and amendments to labour legislation in the Northern Cape Province.  The briefing sessions are intended to educate workers on the implications of proposed amendments to the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), the Labour Relations Act (LRA), the coming into effect of the Accord on Collective Bargaining and Industrial Action, and the Code of Good Practice on Collective Bargaining, Industrial Action and Picketing. The sessions will take place as follows: In Upington on Wednesday, 15 February and in Kimberley on Thursday, 16 February. On Thursday, 15 February at 10h00am, Minister of Communications Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, will brief media on the outcomes of the Cabinet meeting. The briefing will be held at the Imbizo Media Centre, 120 Plein Street, Parliament, Cape Town with a video link up to GCIS, Tshedimosetso House, Pretoria. On Friday, 16 February, the Deputy Minister of Elizabeth Thabethe will host an Enterprise Development Awareness Campaign to provide Gauteng Tourism SMME's with information on opportunities offered by the Enterprise Development Programme and its strategic stakeholders at Emperors Palace, 8:30am. The work of government continues as guided by the current Medium Term Strategic Framework in pursuit of the coherent national vision, Vision 2030, the National Development Plan, a part of efforts to build a better life for South Africans. All members of the media are advised that the media briefings or activities are subject to change. However, Government Communication and Information System will continue to update the media through its advisories. Enquiries:Phumla WilliamsActing GCIS Director-GeneralCell: 083 501 0139